CS-GY 6063 Software Engineering, Fall 2025, Section 3
Dr. Razieh Saremi
Bhavana Peruri, Callum Cooper Nissen, Hariharan Loganathan, Pratyush Chatterjee, Taaha Bin
Mohsin

Team 6 Sprint 1
Project name

Short description

Team
Team confidence
enthusia
sm rank

Product owner

MacroDash

MacroDash is a real-time
economic dashboard that
visualizes data from APIs
like FRED and Yahoo
Finance, with future
features including
sentiment analysis and
AI-driven portfolio
strategies.

9/10

Callum

8.5/10

Description
What is the project you want to develop? (Description in less than 250 words) What is/are the
problem/s you want to solve?
The purpose of MacroDash is to give users seeking actionable insights about markets all of the data and
tools that they need to stay up-to-date and do preliminary research in one place at a low cost.
MacroDash is a macroeconomic dashboard that connects to APIs (e.g., FRED, Yahoo Finance) to
provide real-time economic and financial data. The minimum viable product is a dashboard displaying
customizable sets of macroeconomic indicators and financial asset prices, a utility to explore statistical
characteristics of individual time series and their relationships, and LLM-powered sentiment analysis
coverage of a customizable set of companies and industries. Users would also have a means of
subscribing to updates about the selected companies and industries. A potential expansion is a module
in which an LLM agent could write a portfolio updating function in Python with guidance from the

user. This function could then be backtested on historical data from the dashboard, simulated, and
executed.
User Personas and Major Features
Who are the users you are targeting? Identify a few user personas. Hint: There is usually more than one
“type” of users. Who are the major features you are targeting? Identify major functionality.
1.​ Researcher Rachel is investigating how different macroeconomic indicators from the US and
overseas affect the stationarity of various inter- and intra-industry price ratios. However, the data
sources that she needs are a hassle to access and have differently formatted timestamps at different
frequencies. She wants a way to get all the data in one place. Luckily, she can find all of the variables
she needs lined up and ready to download in MacroDash! She can even perform some preliminary
statistical tests to see if the larger tests she wants to perform offline are worth it.
2.​ Day-trader Daniel wants to track the health of an industry to which his portfolio has become
highly exposed. However, he doesn’t want to search up every company he’s invested in every day,
looking for early signs of price movement. Luckily, he’s found MacroDash, where he can sign up
for email updates about companies in his portfolio and others of his choosing! He can choose
whether to receive them periodically, or only when something dramatic is happening.
3.​ Quant Quincey works at a hedge fund that requires him to report every trade he makes in his
personal brokerage account. He wants to implement a low-frequency systematic strategy to
manage his portfolio without having to manually line up the necessary data every week and send
trade orders himself. Luckily, he’s found MacroDash’s strategy creation suite, where he can
backtest, simulate, and run his strategy in the background at the cost of only a few LLM tokens
and seconds of cloud compute time.
MVP (Minimum Viable Product)
Which features are a must to have? (If you don't have these you do not have a project, not really)
–​ Dashboard with API connections (FRED, Yahoo Finance)
–​ Flexible and customizable visualization of multiple indicators
–​ Juxtaposition of data series with correlation/statistical insights

MLP (Minimum Lovable Product)
Which features are a really nice to have to the users would fall in love with the product (Nice-To-Haves
Features, Not MVP, not MLP but still would be cool do develop these features)
–​ Sentiment Analysis of companies/sectors.
–​ Subscription alerts for selectable companies and industries
–​ LLM Strategy backtesting and simulation.
Nice-To-Have Features
Not MVP, not MLP but still would be cool do develop these features
–​ LLM-enabled algorithmic strategy creation
–​ Strategy backtesting on historical data
–​ Strategy simulation (outside of user session)
–​ Strategy execution on exterior platform, e.g. Robinhood, M1
Call Out CRUD Features
How is this project interactive for the user personas?
1.​ Researcher Rachel
–​ Creates consolidated views of and performs statistical tests on the variables she’s researching.
–​ Reads MacroDash’s extensive catalog of time series.
–​ Updates live views and tests that she has saved in prior sessions.
–​ Deletes views and tests in which she is no longer interested.
2.​ Day-trader Daniel
–​ Creates subscriptions to alerts about all the companies in his portfolio.
–​ Reads sentiment analyses about industries of interest to him.
–​ Updates which companies and industries he wants to receive news about.
–​ Deletes subscriptions.
3.​ Quant Quincey
–​ Creates simple portfolio-updating algorithms.
–​ Reads the results of backtests of his algorithms.
–​ Updates strategies he’s simulating to improve them.
–​ Deletes strategies for which he has found better alternatives.

Similar Already Existing
What similar applications exist on the market? (at least 3 with links and descriptions).
If this work is truly unique and no one has even done anything even remotely similar please explain
your search procedure and how you came to this conclusion
–​ Koyfin, a commercial financial analytics platform geared towards individual investors and advisors
providing global market data, charting, financial statement analysis, and portfolio tracking.
–​ FactSet, a financial data and analytics software providing financial statement analytics, portfolio
analytics, and market data. Often used for more fundamental analysis of companies in asset
management, investment banking, and corporate finance.
–​ Bloomberg Terminal, a financial data and trading software providing real-time market data,
analytics, news, research, and direct trading execution. Highly expensive industry standard
common at large asset managers.
Product Backlog
Item

Estimate

Display a default set of variables from FRED and Yahoo Finance.

5 weeks

Rearrange variables on the dashboard.

4 weeks

Add new variables to the dashboard using a search bar.

4 weeks

Create an account that saves the display from the last session.

4 weeks

Create joint views of time series in the same graph.

5 weeks

Make a rudimentary app to serve basic UI functions

1 week

Scaffold up a backend to serve basic API endpoints

1 week

Have a final vision design of the app ready

1 week

Sort out DevOps: figure out and test where to deploy and which LLM API to use

1 week

Scrum Meeting Log
Monday, September 15th
–​ We decided to go ahead with the macroeconomic dashboard for our proposal
–​ The backtesting feature will most likely not be included, to be visited upon later depending on
viability
–​ Some part of the overall structure of the dashboard was discussed
–​ The dashboard is gonna have a bunch of boxes hosting a slew of data:
–​ Box 1: US economy indicator data, interest rates, gdp etc etc
–​ Box 2: Top 5 stocks/User pinned stocks
–​ There’s gonna be a search function to let the user search up whatever stocks they want, when the
user clicks on a particular stock, they get to see the graph, with the usual time ranges (1 day - 5 years
etc).
–​ A separate box would open up to display financial news related to that particular stock
–​ An LLM agent will help provide insights on the stock, pros cons etc etc. Note, we have to put a
disclaimer that this is NOT financial advice
Wednesday, September 17th
–​ JIRA as project management tool
–​ We began deciding the tech stack
–​ React 18 was decided as the frontend stack, Django has been pre-decided as the backend stack
–​ Focus was shifted on sprint 1 presentation, we want to have a bare bones UI to show the dashboard
along with a figma demo of our vision
–​ We use toy data/graphs for the skeleton UI
–​ All other info goes into a PPT presentation
–​ Deployed on vercel (to be finalised later, after devops is done)
–​ Came up with a plan to do the onboarding and sprint 1 documentations

Sprint Backlog
Task

Fri

Sat

Sun

Mon

Tue

Wed

Thu

Bhavana: DevOps, figure out how to deploy
the apps, figure out and test which LLM
API we will use

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Callum: Outline UI, Find default display
variables and create Python program to
create time-aligned table from APIs

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Hariharan: Scaffold Django app and basic
endpoint(s) serving mock JSON

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Pratyush: Mockups in Figma/Excalidraw

2

2

0

3

1

0

0

Taaha: Scaffold React App to serve basic UI
screen and layout

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

